docs: add mcp-money extension tutorial (#2851)
block/goose: documentation/docs/tutorials/mcp-money.md

---
title: Money Extension 
description: Add MCP Money Server as a Goose Extension
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This tutorial covers how to add the [MCP Money Server](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mcp-money) as a Goose extension to provide access to Bitcoin Lightning Network and Cashu ecash functionality directly within your AI assistant workflow.

> :::tip TLDR

Reviewer: this should be tabbed with a deeplink for desktop. check out the other tutorials to see how to do the tabs.

- **NIP-60 Wallet Interface**: Uses the standardized Nostr wallet interface to store and manage proofs
- **Lightning Network**: Create deposit invoices and pay Lightning invoices
- **Nostr Zaps**: Send zaps to users using npub or NIP-05 identifiers
- **Multi-mint Support**: Manage multiple Cashu mints simultaneously
- **Balance Management**: Check total balance and per-mint breakdowns

## Authentication

The wallet supports multiple ways to provide your Nostr private key for zapping functionality:

1. **Environment variable**: Set `NSEC=nsec1...` in your environment
2. **Command line parameter**: Use `--nsec nsec1...` when running manually
3. **Auto-generate**: The extension will create a new key if none is provided
4. **Config file**: Keys are automatically saved to `.wallet.json` for persistence

:::warning Security Note
Your private keys are stored locally in `.wallet.json`. Keep this file secure and never share it.
:::

## Example Usage

### Goose Prompt

> _Goose, what's my current Bitcoin balance? If I have any funds, send a 100 sat zap to jack@block.xyz with the message "Great post!"_

:::info Demo

> You can see a real example of mcp-money in action [in this tweet](https://njump.me/nevent1qvzqqqqqqypzp75cf0tahv5z7plpdeaws7ex52nmnwgtwfr2g3m37r844evqrr6jqyxhwumn8ghj7e3h0ghxjme0qyd8wumn8ghj7urewfsk66ty9enxjct5dfskvtnrdakj7qghwaehxw309aex2mrp0yh8qunfd4skctnwv46z7qpqh4le94u3rjvg6lgyajekrvf8xaq2ef2e3q9nf0znk562gm5a0hkq790893) demonstrating the extension being used with Goose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see a real example of mcp-money in action [in this Nostr post](https://njump.me/nevent1qvzqqqqqqypzp75cf0tahv5z7plpdeaws7ex52nmnwgtwfr2g3m37r844evqrr6jqyxhwumn8ghj7e3h0ghxjme0qyd8wumn8ghj7urewfsk66ty9enxjct5dfskvtnrdakj7qghwaehxw309aex2mrp0yh8qunfd4skctnwv46z7qpqh4le94u3rjvg6lgyajekrvf8xaq2ef2e3q9nf0znk562gm5a0hkq790893) demonstrating the extension being used with Goose.
```

When the Money extension is active, the following tools become available to Goose:

- `get_balance`: Get the total wallet balance
- `get_mint_balances`: Get balance breakdown per mint
- `deposit`: Create a deposit invoice for specified amount and mint
- `pay`: Pay a Lightning invoice
- `zap`: Send a zap to a user via npub or NIP-05 identifier
- `add_mint`: Add a new mint to the wallet

## Security Considerations

- Private keys are stored locally in `.wallet.json`
- Mint information is cached for performance
- All Nostr communications use standard NIP protocols
- Lightning payments require explicit confirmation
- Only interact with trusted Cashu mints
- Regular backup of your wallet configuration is recommended

## Troubleshooting

**Issue**: Extension fails to start
- Ensure Node.js is installed and accessible
- Check internet connectivity for accessing mints and relays

**Issue**: Zaps fail to send
- Verify your Nostr private key is properly configured
- Check that the recipient's npub is valid
- Ensure sufficient satoshi balance

**Issue**: Lightning payments fail
- Verify the Lightning invoice is valid and not expired
- Check that your connected mints support Lightning

> - Ensure sufficient balance across your mints

Reviewer 2: Thank you so much for adding a tutorial. Please remove this section.
